Israel's war on Gaza has created the
conditions for polio to reemerge here
for the first time in a quarter of a
century now the race is on to stop the
highly contagious virus from spreading
across the strip Hamas and Israel have
agreed to limited pauses in fighting so
children can be
vaccinated the UN Agency for Palestinian
refugees says the vaccination campaign
is working but it's complicated
at first we had some concerns about the
type of vaccine itself but since it was
announced by the health Ministry this
gives us some reassurance that's why we
rushed hoping we could provide more
protection to our
children the teams are currently in
southern Gaza this is one of the
designated vaccination sites in kanun we
have been seeing parents queuing up here
to ensure their children are getting the
shot but there still worried by the
unsanitary conditions caused by the
shortage of toilets and clean water
there are other challenges too the
health Ministry says Israel has been
refusing to allow Medical Teams accesses
to communities living in the Eastern
sides of cities in southern
Gaza as polio was detected in Gaza we
were worried the vaccine could not be
made available to us the same applies to
hepatitis and other skin diseases many
many of these diseases are quite serious
and can cause death we're grateful the
vaccine is now available for our
children in the Gaza Strip the H system
in Gaza has virtually collapsed it
wouldn't be able to handle an outbreak
of polio the UN is hoping to give
640,000 children Two Shots a month apart
it says at least 90% coverage is needed
to prevent the virus from spreading
across the strip and even
internationally
the vaccination campaign was launched
after a 10-month-old baby was diagnosed
with polio last month and has been
partially paralyzed H
alun
Palestine make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz